Good evening. On Wednesday, 14
Americans were killed as they
came together to celebrate
the holidays. They were taken
from family and friends who
loved them deeply. They were
white and black, Latino and
Asian, immigrants, and American
born, moms and dads, daughters
and sons. Each of them served
their fellow citizens. All of
them were part of our American
family.
Tonight I want to talk with you
about this tragedy, the broader
threat of terrorism and
how we can keep our country
safe. The FBI is still gathering
the facts about what happened
in San Bernardino, but here's
what we know. The victims were
brutally murdered and injured
by one of their co-workers and
his wife. So far, we have no
evidence that the killers
were directed by a terrorist
organization overseas or that
they were part of a broader
conspiracy here at home. But it
is clear that the two of them
had gone down the dark path
of radicalization, embracing a
perverted interpretation of
Islam that calls for war against
America
and the West. They had
stockpiled assault weapons,
ammunition, and pipe bombs.
So this was an act of terrorism
designed to kill innocent
people. Our nation has been
at war with terrorists since Al
Qaeda killed nearly 3,000
Americans on 9/11. In the
process,
we've hardened our defenses,
from airports, to financial
centers, to other critical
infrastructure.
Intelligence and law enforcement
agencies have disrupted
countless plots here and
overseas
and worked around the
clock to keep us safe.
Our military and
counterterrorism professionals
have relentlessly pursued
terrorist networks
overseas, disrupting safe havens
in several different countries,
killing Osama Bin Laden,
and decimating Al
Qaeda's leadership.
Over the last few years,
however, the terrorist threat
has evolved into a new phase. As
we've
become better at preventing
complex multifaceted attacks
like 9/11, terrorists turn to
less
complicated acts of violence
like the mass shootings that are
all too common in our society.
It is this type of attack that
we saw at Fort Hood in 2009, in
Chattanooga earlier this
year, and now in San Bernardino.
And as groups like ISIL grew
stronger amidst the chaos of war
in Iraq and then Syria, and
as the Internet erases the
distance between countries, we
see growing efforts by
terrorists
to poison the minds of people
like the Boston Marathon bombers
and the San Bernardino killers.
For seven years, I've confronted
this evolving threat each and
every morning in my intelligence
briefing, and since the day I
took this office, I have
authorized U.S. forces to take
out
terrorists abroad precisely
because I know how real the
danger is.
As commander in chief, I have no
greater responsibility than the
security of the American people.
As a father to two young
daughters who are the most
precious part of my life, I know
that we see ourselves with
friends and co-workers at a
holiday party like the one in
San Bernardino.
I know we see our kids in the
faces of the young people killed
in Paris.
And I know that after so much
war, many Americans are asking
whether we are confronted by a
cancer that has no
immediate cure.
OBAMA: Well, here's what I want
you to know. The threat from
terrorism is real, but we
will overcome it. We will
destroy ISIL and any other
organization that tries to harm
us. Our success won't depend on
tough talk, or abandoning our
values or giving into fear.
That's what groups like ISIL are
hoping for. Instead, we will
prevail by being strong and
smart, resilient and relentless.
And by drawing upon every aspect
of American power.
Here's how. First, our military
will continue to hunt down
terrorist plotters in any
country
where it is necessary. In Iraq
and Syria, air strikes are
taking out ISIL leaders, heavy
weapons, oil tankers,
infrastructure.
And since attacks in Paris, our
closest allies, including
France, Germany, and the United
Kingdom, have ramped up their
contributions to our military
campaign which will help us
accelerate our effort
to destroy ISIL.
Second, we will continue to
provide training and equipment
to tens of thousands of Iraqi
and Syrian forces fighting ISIL
on the ground so that we take
away their safe havens.
In both countries, we're
deploying special operations
forces who can accelerate that
offensive. We've stepped up this
effort since the attacks in
Paris, and will continue to
invest more in approaches that
are working on the ground.
Third, we're working with
friends and allies to stop
ISIL's operations, to disrupt
plots,
cut off their financing, and
prevent them from recruiting
more fighters.
Since the attacks in Paris,
we've surged merged intelligence
sharing with our European
allies.
We're working with Turkey to
seal its border with Syria, and
we are cooperating with Muslim
majority countries, and with our
Muslim communities here at home,
to counter the vicious ideology
that ISIL promotes online.
Fourth, with American
leadership, the international
community has begun to establish
a process
and timeline to pursue
cease-fires and a political
resolution to the Syrian war.
Doing so will allow the Syrian
people and every country,
including our allies, but also
countries like Russia, to focus
on the common goal of destroying
ISIL, a group that threatens
us all.
This is our strategy to destroy
ISIL. It is designed and
supported by our military
commanders
and counterterrorism experts,
together with 65 countries that
have joined an American-led
coalition. And we constantly
examine our strategy to
determine when additional steps
are needed
to get the job done.
That's why I've ordered the
Departments of State and
Homeland Security to review the
visa waiver program under which
the female terrorist in San
Bernardino originally came
to this country. And that's why
I will urge high-tech and law
enforcement leaders to make
it harder for terrorists to use
technology to escape from
justice.
Now, here at home, we have to
work together to address the
challenge. There are several
steps that Congress should take
right away. To begin with,
Congress should act to make
sure no one on a no- fly list is
able to buy a gun. What could
possibly be the argument
for allowing a terrorist suspect
to buy a semiautomatic weapon?
This is a matter of
national security.
We also need to make it harder
for people to buy powerful
assault weapons, like the
ones that were used in San
Bernardino. I know there are
some who reject any gun-safety
measures,
but the fact is that our
intelligence and law-enforcement
agencies, no matter how
effective
they are, cannot identify every
would-be mass shooter, whether
that individual was motivated
by ISIL or some other
hateful ideology.
What we can do, and must do, is
make it harder for them to kill.
Next, we should put in place
stronger screening for those who
come to America without a visa
so that we can take a hard look
at whether they've traveled to
war zones. And we're working
with members of both parties in
Congress to do exactly that.
Finally, if Congress believes,
as I do, that we are at war with
ISIL, it should go ahead
and vote to authorize the
continued use of military force
against these terrorists.
For over a year, I have ordered
our military to take thousands
of air strikes against ISIL
targets. I think it's time for
Congress to vote to demonstrate
that the American people
are united and committed
to this fight.
My fellow Americans, these are
the steps that we can take
together to defeat the terrorist
threat.
Let me now say a word about what
we should not do. We should not
be drawn once more into
a long and costly ground war in
Iraq or Syria. That's what
groups like ISIL want. They know
they can't defeat us on the
battlefield. ISIL fighters were
part of the insurgency that
we faced in Iraq. But they also
know that if we occupy foreign
lands, they can maintain
insurgencies for years, killing
thousands of our troops and
draining our resources,
and using our presence
to draw new recruits.
The strategy that we are using
now -- air strikes, special
forces, and working with
local forces who are fighting to
regain control of their own
country -- that is how we'll
achieve a more sustainable
victory, and it won't require us
sending a new generation
of Americans overseas to fight
and die for another decade on
foreign soil.
Here's what else we cannot do.
We cannot turn against one
another by letting this fight
be defined as a war between
America and Islam. That, too, is
what groups like ISIL want.
ISIL does not speak for Islam.
They are thugs and killers, part
of a cult of death. And
they account for a tiny fraction
of a more than a billion Muslims
around the world, including
millions of patriotic
Muslim-Americans who reject
their hateful ideology.
Moreover, the vast majority of
terrorist victims around the
world are Muslim.
If we're to succeed in defeating
terrorism, we must enlist Muslim
communities as some
of our strongest allies, rather
than push them away through
suspicion and hate.
That does not mean denying the
fact that an extremist ideology
has spread within some
Muslim communities. It's a real
problem that Muslims must
confront without excuse.
Muslim leaders here and around
the globe have to continue
working with us to decisively
and unequivocally reject the
hateful ideology that groups
like ISIL and Al Qaeda promote,
to speak out against not just
acts of violence, but also those
interpretations of Islam that
are incompatible with the values
of religious tolerance, mutual
respect, and human dignity.
But just as it is the
responsibility of Muslims around
the world to root out misguided
ideas
that lead to radicalization, it
is the responsibility of all
Americans, of every faith, to
reject
discrimination. It is our
responsibility to reject
religious tests on who we admit
into
this country. It's our
responsibility to reject
proposals that Muslim-Americans
should somehow
be treated differently. Because
when we travel down that road,
we lose. That kind of
divisiveness,
that betrayal of our values
plays into the hands of groups
like ISIL.
Muslim-Americans are our friends
and our neighbors, our co-
workers, our sports heroes. And,
yes,
they are our men and women in
uniform who are willing to die
in defense of our country.
We have to remember that.
My fellow Americans, I am
confident we will succeed in
this mission because we are on
the right side of history. We
were founded upon a belief in
human dignity that no matter
who you are, or where you come
from, or what you look like or
what religion you practice,
you are equal in the eyes of God
and equal in the eyes of the
law. Even in this political
season, even as we properly
debate what steps I and future
presidents must take to keep
our country safe. Let's make
sure we never forget what makes
us exceptional. Let's not
forget that freedom is more
powerful than fear. That we have
always met challenges,
whether war or depression,
natural disasters or terrorist
attacks, by coming together
around
our common ideals as one
nation and one people.
So long as we stay true to that
tradition, I have no doubt that
America will prevail.
Thank you. God bless you. And
may God bless the United States
of America.